Loan Welcome back.
This lecture I want to provide a solution to our previous challenge which was implementing the interpreter
design pattern.
We're gonna name this project interpreter solution remember this is all about having a language that
represents AND and OR expressions.
So we're gonna have non terminals and terminal symbols in this implementation that's going gonna be
interpreted ter solution interpreter and implementation.
Tough to say our first step is gonna be to create the context.
This will do the actual interpretation it contains information that is global to the interpreter remember
we're just gonna look at the string and see if it contains it.
So we're gonna say new Java class we're gonna call this context and this is going to just have input
as a member variable right.
And a constructor that sets the input of public context String input and then we're just going to say
this Don input equals input.
We also need to have a get result.
This is gonna be called by our non terminal our terminal class I'm sorry.
Terminal class.
So there is a public boolean get resolved it turns a boolean because a string or an end and or expression
returns boolean and so all we're gonna do with the data is we're gonna see for contains and if it does
that's going to say it's true for that monster are true for that terminal or two for that non terminal.
Gosh I keep giving those terms mixed up so if I say if input dot contains data then I'm going to return
return True else return false.
That's how we're gonna determine our and doors if the context of data is contained inside their.
Now we want to create different types of expressions that will consume this interpreter context class.
This is gonna declare an abstract and Thurber operation that's common to all the nodes the abstract
syntax tree it's gonna be named expression.
So we're gonna say new Java class expression and this is gonna be interface.
It's gonna be a boolean that returns earned interpret that returns of boolean so public boolean interpret
and it's gonna take context
before is gonna create the terminal concrete class this terminal concrete class is going to implement
this interpret operation and you have to have an instance of the terminal for every terminal symbol
in a sentence the interpret method at each node uses the context to store and access the state of the
interpreter.
So you're gonna say class terminal expression and this is going to implement our expression.
This is gonna have a private String data.
It's gonna have a constructor that sets the data
and then it's going to have our over and method override hopes
for our interpret public boolean interpret.
And remember this is a terminal so a terminal just means it calls the context method.
So here takes context so this is just gonna call the result.
It's gonna say return context not give result passing in its data.
The non terminals are gonna have instances of each terminal for that rule and we have two rules and
hand or.
So now we want to create the non terminal again.
These classes have are you have to have a class for each rule in the grammar.
It means it's going to maintain an instance variable of type abstract expression for each of the symbols
on either side of the non terminal terminal not terminal implements and interpret operation for the
non terminal symbols in the grammar each non terminal expression node is going to define interpret in
terms of interpret on each substance of expression so the first one we're gonna create is the OR expression
and this is going to have two expressions associated with it.
So we're going to have a private expression expression one sequel to null and another one expression
two.
And these will be set in the constructor so or expression they're both going to take an expression that's
going to take two expressions expression one
expression two
All right pretty common stuff here.
All right.
Now it needs to have its interpret function interpret method interpret Method Method Method.
I keep saying function I could think for that too.
Hopefully.
This is going to return a boolean remember and take context.
And what does it's gonna do.
It's going to use recursion right.
It's going to use recursion to figure out what it needs to stop.
So it's going to say return expression one to interpret context or expression to interpret the context
or they're as simple so if you call interpret turns true for turns true once this is going to return
true because that's what always do.
So we just use the logical operator here on both on both of our terminals in our expression is going
to be very very similar so let's say.
Well I guess we'll put this in another class.
I'm going to copy it.
This is gonna be called our and expression.
Again this is a non terminal.
It's going to implement our expression
and this is gonna be very similar it's going to have a couple of expressions
and it's gonna be okay and expression and then they're really only thing it's gonna do is in the interpret
it's gonna do an ampersand Ampersand like this passing Ampersand looks weird.
And in this case when it calls the interpret recursively it's going to eventually have to return to
on both sides
and let's indent this correctly.
Now we have to create our client application.
This is gonna create a non terminal expression based on it's going to be hardcoded the client will then
initialize the context and invoke and interpret operation and then use the output to generate the response
the client is gonna be given an abstract syntax tree representing a particular sentence and the language
that the grammar defines.
Remember we're just going to define we're just gonna hard code it with some simple strings so the grammar
again remember has two non terminals and in.
They take the.
The rules are they take expressions on either side and then the turtle symbols are strings.
And so let's create that client application.
We're going to say new client
and we're gonna have a couple helper methods that are just going to get some of the examples I provided
in the class.
We're gonna check if certain names or certain certain people are males and we're gonna check if certain
women are married so we're gonna create a helper method public static.
It's going to return an expression get male expression it's gonna tell us if you're a male or not.
So here we're gonna say expression robber equals new terminal expression.
And this is just going to be Robert
we're gonna have another one expression John equals new terminal expression and this is gonna be John.
And this is the language that we're defining right.
These are terminals terminals.
So Robert and John are terminals and if they're Mayor if either one of these mails they have to contain
one of these.
So we're gonna save return a new or expression of one of these to Robert or John.
So here we created our non terminal expression.
We're gonna do something similar for checking if a woman is married.
We're only going to allow one sense in the language for this.
This is gonna be two terminals.
Julie married.
So the only one that could possibly married is Julie and the only males that we have in our language
are John and Robert we're having right here and one thing we forgot to do is we forgot to implement
the expression on your face.
In both of our non terminals we did it in here but not the other one.
That would make sense that's why I was right there.
So we have our two expressions and we want to check.
Now we need to write a mean method
and this one is gonna create a two expressions.
Ismail is married woman and that's gonna be by calling these helmets.
So we'll say expression is male equals get male expression and then we'll say expression is married
woman equals get married woman expression.
Now we're gonna create our context which is gonna see if these if these certain contexts are in the
language so it's a context I see equals new context and we're gonna just say John
White's adding maybe I'm adding the second parentheses.
And so then we're gonna print out is John a male and he should be because he's one of the expressions
so we'll say system put out the print line
John is male.
Like a question mark and then we'll see if he is by calling is male that interpret the context
and we'll also do the same for context of Mary.
Julie is duly married something like this.
Now if we checked if someone else was May married so we could probably do a third context.
Maybe you could say well we could say is Lucy married or Lucy male I should say.
And that should return false.
So if we can compile this and we'll see if these contexts return the correct results now we're gonna
run our client
and you'll notice John is male is true.
John is a married woman is true and Lucy is male is true and that's probably because I'm not passing
in the right context.
I see three.
There we go.
Sorry about that.
Rebuild and run and now we see Lucy as male is false.
So that's a solution to the challenge.
If you have any questions please let me know.
Otherwise thank you.